OBSDOCS-3386: Logging 6.6.0 release notes (#114835)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/logging-release-notes-6-6-0-enhancement.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * release_notes/logging-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="logging-release-notes-6-6-0-enhancement_{context}"]
= New features and enhancements

[role="_abstract"]

> The following section lists the new features and enhancements introduced in this release of {LoggingProductName}. It highlights key improvements, added capabilities, and updates that enhance functionality.

Reviewer: The remaining issues that I have on my list but are not mentioned here are "smaller enhancements". I don't think they need a full paragraph each, a listing similar to the bugfixes is enough (maybe between the "bigger enhancements" and the bugfixes?):

- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-6384
- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-7256
- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-7392
- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-8972
- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-8977
- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-8978
- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-9358
- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-9401
- https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-9402

Azure Monitor Logs Ingestion API support::

> With this release, you can forward logs to Azure Monitor by using the new Logs Ingestion API with Data Collection Rules (DCR). This replaces the deprecated Data Collector API, which Microsoft will disable on September 14, 2026. The new `azureLogsIngestion` output type offers enhanced security through support for {entra-id} Workload Identity, which enables pod-based authentication without managing shared secrets. Service principal authentication with client secrets remains available for environments that require it. Data Collection Rules provide schema flexibility, allowing you to define custom log schemas that match your organization's requirements. You can specify which field receives the timestamp, supporting standard schemas such as `TimeGenerated` or specialized schemas such as ASIM that use `EventStartTime`. Both the new `azureLogsIngestion` output and the deprecated `azureMonitor` output can coexist in the same `ClusterLogForwarder` custom resource during the migration period. (link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/OBSDA-804[OBSDA-804])

Reviewer: I don't know if we have used the OBSDA issues in the release-notes/docs before... I think historically we have linked to the epic, which in this case should be [LOG-7259](https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-7259). I don't know why this epic is not linked to OBSDA-804 though (I have asked in the team channel):

```suggestion
With this release, you can forward logs to Azure Monitor by using the new Logs Ingestion API with Data Collection Rules (DCR). This replaces the deprecated Data Collector API, which Microsoft will disable on September 14, 2026. The new `azureLogsIngestion` output type offers enhanced security through support for {entra-id} Workload Identity, which enables pod-based authentication without managing shared secrets. Service principal authentication with client secrets remains available for environments that require it. Data Collection Rules provide schema flexibility, allowing you to define custom log schemas that match your organization's requirements. You can specify which field receives the timestamp, supporting standard schemas such as `TimeGenerated` or specialized schemas such as ASIM that use `EventStartTime`. Both the new `azureLogsIngestion` output and the deprecated `azureMonitor` output can coexist in the same `ClusterLogForwarder` custom resource during the migration period. (link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-7259[LOG-7259])
```

Google Cloud Platform Workload Identity Federation authentication::

> With this release, you can forward logs to Google Cloud Logging by using Workload Identity Federation (WIF) for authentication. WIF provides short-lived credentials instead of long-lived service account keys, improving security by eliminating the need to manage and rotate service account key files. This feature is only supported on {product-title} clusters installed on GCP in manual credentials mode with WIF enabled. To configure WIF authentication, you use the Cloud Credential Operator utility (`ccoctl`) to create GCP service accounts, IAM policy bindings, and workload identity bindings between {product-title} service accounts and GCP service accounts. The collector uses pod-injected service account tokens as subject tokens for WIF token exchange with GCP. Service account key authentication remains available for environments that do not use WIF. (link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/OBSDA-746[OBSDA-746])

Reviewer: Similar comment to the above. Again the epic is not linked to the OBSDA but some OCPSTRAT ...

```suggestion
With this release, you can forward logs to Google Cloud Logging by using Workload Identity Federation (WIF) for authentication. WIF provides short-lived credentials instead of long-lived service account keys, improving security by eliminating the need to manage and rotate service account key files. This feature is only supported on {product-title} clusters installed on GCP in manual credentials mode with WIF enabled. To configure WIF authentication, you use the Cloud Credential Operator utility (`ccoctl`) to create GCP service accounts, IAM policy bindings, and workload identity bindings between {product-title} service accounts and GCP service accounts. The collector uses pod-injected service account tokens as subject tokens for WIF token exchange with GCP. Service account key authentication remains available for environments that do not use WIF. (link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-3577[LOG-3577])
```

Metrics collection profiles to reduce collector cardinality::

> With this release, you can configure the cluster monitoring operator to use metrics collection profiles, which control how many metrics Prometheus collects from the log collector. The `minimal` profile reduces metrics cardinality by collecting only the metrics needed for platform alerts, dashboards, telemetry, and Horizontal and Vertical Pod Autoscaling. This profile excludes high-cardinality histogram metrics such as `vector_component_received_events_count_bucket` and `vector_buffer_send_duration_seconds_bucket`, which create thousands of time series in multitenant environments but are not required for platform functionality. Testing shows the minimal profile reduces Prometheus CPU consumption by approximately 21% and memory consumption by approximately 33% while maintaining all functionality needed for cluster operations. You configure the profile by setting the `collectionProfile` field to `minimal` in the `cluster-monitoring-config` ConfigMap in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace. Available profiles are `full` (default, collects all metrics), `minimal` (collects only metrics needed for platform functionality), and `telemetry` (collects only metrics required for Red Hat telemetry). (link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/OBSDA-1341[OBSDA-1341])

Reviewer: For this one LOG-9355 is the epic ... and this time there's a link between the two 🙂 

```suggestion
With this release, you can configure the cluster monitoring operator to use metrics collection profiles, which control how many metrics Prometheus collects from the log collector. The `minimal` profile reduces metrics cardinality by collecting only the metrics needed for platform alerts, dashboards, telemetry, and Horizontal and Vertical Pod Autoscaling. This profile excludes high-cardinality histogram metrics such as `vector_component_received_events_count_bucket` and `vector_buffer_send_duration_seconds_bucket`, which create thousands of time series in multitenant environments but are not required for platform functionality. Testing shows the minimal profile reduces Prometheus CPU consumption by approximately 21% and memory consumption by approximately 33% while maintaining all functionality needed for cluster operations. You configure the profile by setting the `collectionProfile` field to `minimal` in the `cluster-monitoring-config` ConfigMap in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace. Available profiles are `full` (default, collects all metrics), `minimal` (collects only metrics needed for platform functionality), and `telemetry` (collects only metrics required for Red Hat telemetry). (link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/LOG-9355[LOG-9355])
```
